Add affiliation results (#87)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/20.results.md

We observed a slow increase of the proportion of predicted female authors, arriving at just over 20% in 2019 (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}, left).
We observe very similar trend within each journal, but estimated female proportion has increased the least in _PLOS Computational Biology_ (see [notebook](https://greenelab.github.io/iscb-diversity/09.visualize-gender.html#sup_fig_s1)).
ISCB Fellows and keynote speakers appear to be more evenly split between men and women compared to the population of authors published in computational biology and bioinformatics journals (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}, right); however, it has not yet reached parity.

> Further, taking all the years together, a Welch two-sample t-test did not reveal any statistically significant difference in the mean probability of ISCB speakers predicted to be female compared to that of authors (t~418~ = 0.753, p = 0.226).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further, taking all the years together, a Welch two-sample t-test did not reveal any statistically significant difference in the mean probability of ISCB speakers predicted to be female compared to that of authors (t~418~ = 0.753, _p_ = 0.226).
```

very nitpick https://stats.stackexchange.com/a/875/74908

Author: I was gonna let the journal applies their style but OK.

> Further, taking all the years together, a Welch two-sample t-test does not reveal any statistically significant difference in the mean probability of ISCB speakers predicted to be female compared to that of authors (t~418~ = 0.753, p = 0.226).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Further, taking all the years together, a Welch two-sample t-test did not reveal any statistically significant difference in the mean probability of ISCB speakers predicted to be female compared to that of authors (t~418~ = 0.753, p = 0.226).
```

  (B) For each region, the mean predicted probability of Pubmed articles is shown as teal LOESS curve, and the mean probability and 95% confidence interval of the ISCB honoree predictions are shown as dark circles and vertical lines.

](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/iscb-diversity/master/figs/region_breakdown.png){#fig:region_breakdown}

### Affiliation Analysis

We analyzed the countries of affiliation between corresponding authors and ISCB honorees.

> For each country, we report a value of log enrichment (LOE) and its 95% confidence intervals  (Table @tbl:enrichment_tab).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each country, we report a value of log enrichment (LOE) and its 95% confidence intervals  (Table @tbl:country-enrichment).
```

A positive value of LOE indicates a higher proportion of honorees affiliated with that country compared to authors.

> LOE value of 1 represents a one-fold enrichment (i.e., observed number of honorees is twice as much as expected).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A LOE value of 1 represents a one-fold enrichment (i.e., observed number of honorees is twice as much as expected).
```

> In 20 countries with the most publications, we found an overrepresentation of honorees affiliated with institutions and companies in the US (97 speakers more than expected, LOE = 0.6, 95% CI (0.5, 0.8)) and Israel (12 speakers more than expected, LOR = 1.6 (0.9, 2.3)) and an underrepresentation of honorees affiliated with those in China, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, and India (Fig. @fig:enrichment_plot).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the 20 countries with the most publications, we found an overrepresentation of honorees affiliated with institutions and companies in the US (97 speakers more than expected, LOE = 0.6, 95% CI (0.5, 0.8)) and Israel (12 speakers more than expected, LOR = 1.6 (0.9, 2.3)) and an underrepresentation of honorees affiliated with those in China, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, and India (Fig. @fig:enrichment_plot).
```

> In the 20 countries with the most publications, we found an overrepresentation of honorees affiliated with institutions and companies in the US (97 speakers more than expected, LOE = 0.6, 95% CI (0.5, 0.8)) and Israel (12 speakers more than expected, LOR = 1.6 (0.9, 2.3)) and an underrepresentation of honorees affiliated with those in China, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, and India (Fig. @fig:enrichment_plot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 20 countries with the most publications, we found an overrepresentation of honorees affiliated with institutions and companies in the US (97 speakers more than expected, LOE = 0.6, 95% CI (0.5, 0.8)) and Israel (12 speakers more than expected, LOR = 1.6 (0.9, 2.3)) and an underrepresentation of honorees affiliated with those in China, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, and India (Fig. @fig:country-enrichment).
```

| Sweden         | 1.34%             | 6.0      | 5.3      | 0.7                 | 1.1        | 0.2              | (-1, 1.3)               |
| Korea          | 1.30%             | 1.0      | 5.1      | -4.1                | 0.2        | -2.4             | (-5.1, 0.3)             |
| Taiwan         | 1.25%             | 0.0      | 4.9      | -4.9                | 0.0        |                  | (-Inf, -Inf)            |
| India          | 1.20%             | 0.0      | 4.7      | -4.7                | 0.0        |                  | (-Inf, -Inf)            |
| Belgium        | 1.04%             | 1.0      | 4.1      | -3.1                | 0.2        | -2.0             | (-4.7, 0.7)             |
| Singapore      | 0.88%             | 1.0      | 3.5      | -2.5                | 0.3        | -1.8             | (-4.5, 0.9)             |
| Finland        | 0.85%             | 0.0      | 3.4      | -3.4                | 0.0        |                  | (-Inf, -Inf)            |

Table: **Enrichment and depletion in proportion of ISCB honorees compared to Pubmed corresponding authors of 20 countries with the most publications.**

> The table lists the 20 countries and their corresponding enrichment, computed by dividing the observed proportion of honorees by expected proportion of honorees, which is based on proportion of corresponding authors.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The table lists the countries and their corresponding enrichment, which we computed by dividing the observed proportion of honorees by expected proportion of honorees.
The expected proportion was calculated using corresponding author proportions.
```

> A positive Log~2~(Enrichment) indicates a higher proportion of honorees affiliated with that country compared to authors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A positive Log~2~(Enrichment) indicated a higher proportion of honorees than corresponding authors affiliated with that country.
```

> Full table with all countries can be browsed interactively in the corresponding [analysis notebook](https://greenelab.github.io/iscb-diversity/15.analyze-affiliation.html#enrichment_tab).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full table with all countries can be browsed interactively in the corresponding [analysis notebook](https://greenelab.github.io/iscb-diversity/15.analyze-affiliation.html#enrichment_tab).
```

The full table with all countries can be browsed interactively in the corresponding [analysis notebook](https://greenelab.github.io/iscb-diversity/15.analyze-affiliation.html#enrichment_tab).

> {#tbl:enrichment_tab}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{#tbl:country-enrichment}
```

![The overrepresentation of honorees affiliated with institutions and companies in the US and Israel contrasts the underrepresentation of honorees affiliated with those in China, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, and India. 
For each country, enrichment is computed by dividing the observed proportion of honorees by the expected proportion of honorees whose affiliations are in that country, and 95% confidence interval of the log is estimated with the delta method (left). 
Observed (triangle) and expected (circle) number of honorees and their differences (observed - expected) are shown in square-root scale on the right. 
Countries are ordered based on the proportion of authors in the field.

> ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/iscb-diversity/master/figs/enrichment-plot.png){#fig:enrichment_plot width="80%"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/iscb-diversity/master/figs/enrichment-plot.png){#fig:country-enrichment width="80%"}
```
